All right, let's get started working on this event bus implementation.
To get started, we're going to first create a new folder inside of our project directory to house all
the code for this event bus.
So I'm back at my terminal.
I'm going to open up yet another terminal window.
So I've now got four, got one for the React app, one for posts, one for comments.
I'm down here in the new one.
In the new one, I'm going to change back to my blog directory, which is housing all of my three overall
services.
Then in this folder I'm going to create a new folder called Events.
We'll call it How about Event Bus?
Just be really clear, I'll then change into that directory.
Let me make this window just a little bit larger.
Inside of here, we're going to generate a new package json file.
So that's an NP init dash y.
And then we're going to install.
Express Node one.
Axios.
And I think that is about it.
Yep.
That's it.
We'll go ahead and run that.
And then after this is done, I'm going to open up my code editor inside this directory.
All right, so as usual, we're going to create an index file inside of here.
At the very top, we're going to import Express.
We're going to get body passer.
And we'll get Axios as well.
I'm then going to create a new express application.
All then associate the body parser JSON middleware with this app.
So we'll do an API use body parser JSON.
And then that's pretty much it for the initial setup.
Now all we have to do is implement this endpoint to watch for incoming events, as we just saw in this
diagram back over here, it's going to be a post request handler that's going to watch for post request
to slash events.
Any time we receive an event or it's going to turn right back around, make a series of requests to
these different servers.
So we'll set up a post request handler on events.
I'm going to put in my callback right here.
We're going to get our event, which we're going to assume is just going to be the request body.
So whatever comes along in the request body, that is going to be our event.
We don't know if it's going to be a JSON object.
We don't know if it's going to be a string, a number, who knows what?
All we know is that we're going to take whatever is inside that request body and send it off to all
of our different running services.
So now that we've got that event, we're going to make our series of post requests to our other running
services.
So we'll do an Axios post.
To HTTP, own slash slash local host or thousand slash events.
And the data that we're going to send along is that exact event.
I'm then going to duplicate that line twice.
And I'll put in localhost 4001.
And then localhost 4002.
And then finally at the very bottom, we'll do a resend and we'll just say any time someone tries to
emit an event, we'll just send back something that says status.
Okay.
Just to indicate that everything worked as expected.
Now there is one downside to the implementation we have right here.
We are assuming that all three of these post requests are always going to succeed.
We don't have any handling code around the possibility of one of them failing.
That's just something I want to point out right now, because it's going to start to become a little
bit relevant as we start to implement each of these different event endpoint handlers.
Okay.
So now finally at the very bottom, we're going to make sure that this thing is listening.
So we'll put on an app.
Listen, we're going to have this listen to 4005.
Notice how I skipped a couple of ports right here.
So we've got our posts, our comments, soon to be our query service, and then our event bus is just
going to go directly up to 4005.
I'll put in my callback and I'll do a console.log.
Listing on 4005.
So that is it for a very simple, very basic event plus implementation.
Now, last thing we're going to do, we're going to open up that package, JSON file.
We're going to update our script inside of here.
So I'm going to delete the default test one and replace it with the start script.
Once again will do node on index.
Okay.
So let's go back over to our terminal.
I've got my fourth terminal window right here.
So again, react to those comments.
Event bus.
I'm inside of event bus and inside there I'll do an NPM start.
And so I should see a listing on 4005.
Very good.
Now that we've got our very simple event bus put together, let's take a pause right here in the next
video, we're going to make sure that whenever someone creates a post or a comment, we're going to
emit an event over to our event bus.
So a quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.